log.md, before:

# Learning Log


----------------------------------------------------------
# 2021

----------------------------------------------------------
## August 30, 2021

**Administration of UNIX-like Systems**
- The course deals with the skills required to administer a UNIX like
systems such as basic commands for working and navigating the system,
modify the operating system kernel, configure and modify a bootloader,
volume, process and user management.
- In addition to knowledge about the use of a UNIX-like system, the course deals 
even with the most common services used in a network, for example CIFS, NFS, email, DNSSEC and firewalls
 
**Thoughts**

I have had a great time diving into UNIX-like systems, even though I Windows has been my primary system for years and 
years. Using bash has opened a whole new world up for me, I can see my self making Linux my primary system.

**Databases - Modelling and Implementing**
- Different database systems
- Basic concepts
- Three-level architecture
- Relational model, relational algebra
- Orientation about object-oriented and the object relation model
- SQL, both simple and advanced
- Design of relational database and simple object relation databases using SQL
- Entity Relationship Models (ER)
- Extended Entity-Relationship (EER)
- Unified Modeling Language (UML)
- Normalization and functional dependencies
- Conversion of conceptual model to database schema
- Databases in Client / Server environment
- Transfer of an existing database from one environment to another
- Simple database programming
- Security
 
**Thoughts**

I have to say I like building databases, but damn there is so many parts to it.

----------------------------------------------------------
## March 22, 2021

**Computer Network**
- Overview: Briefly about the history, development and standardization of data communication. Different types of data communication protocols. Digitization. Circuit connection and packet switching. Detailed review of the OSI model and TCP / IP model layers. Infrastructure and communication technologies for local area networks (LANs), city networks (MAN) and global networks (WANs). 
- Physical layer: Different types of signals, attenuation, distortion and interference. Differences between analogue resp. digital signals. The bandwidth and bit rate of the transmission channel. Modulation and coding techniques for digital transmission. Multiplexing. Transmission media. Functions in different types of modems. Broadband access techniques.
- Data link layer: Framing, error handling, flow control. Local area networks (LAN). Topologies. Multi-access technicians. Ethernet. MAC addresses. Repeaters, hubs, bridges, switches. 
- Network layer: The IP protocol. IP addressing. Address types. Subnets and subnet masks. ARP. ICMP. DHCP. Router protocol.
- Transport layer: TCP and UDP protocols. Port numbers and sockets. Traffic jam management.
- Application layer: Client / server model. DNS. Application protocol. URLs.

**Thoughts**

This course has been fun and I think it would be beneficial to delve into this even more whenever I can.

**Object Based Programming in C++**
- Object-oriented terminology: class, members, operations, attributes, objects, instance, inheritance, relationship, message etc.
- Specification and implementation of classes in C++ 
- Overloading operators 
- Const declarations
- Abstract data types such as queue, stack and list
- Dynamic memory allocation 
- Pointers and its applications 
- Iterators in the standard library, including the connection to pointers
- Recursive algorithms
- Container classes in the standard library
- Own implementations of sorting and searching algorithms
- UML diagrams for classes, objects, activities and sequences

**Thoughts**

We are getting into C++ on a deeper level, and it seems that I am not that bad at it. Got a few compliments from my teacher so that makes me happy :)

**Link to work**

[Structs, own datatypes and operatoroverloadings](keep-learning/programming-languages/2021/structs)

[Linked lists](keep-learning/programming-languages/2021/linkedlists)

[maze iterative DFS](keep-learning/programming-languages/2021/maze)

----------------------------------------------------------
## January 18, 2021

**Mathematics, Discrete Mathematics**
- Theorem logic, logical reasoning and mathematical argumentation
- Equivalence relations, partitions
- Elementary number theory, divisibility, Euclid's algorithm, recursion, modular calculus
- Combinatorics
- Introduction to the complexity of algorithms
- Initial graph theory, e.g. simple graphs and elementary graph theoretical connections, trees and applications and digraphs.
- Some graph theoretical algorithms such as exciting trees and shortest paths.

**Introduction to Operating System**
- Basic concepts and history
- Construction and structure
- Processes and threads 
- Pseudo-parallel execution algorithms
- Memory management with virtual memory
- Communication with input and output units, file system
- Interrupt management
- Interprocess communication
- Synchronization mechanisms

**Thoughts**

This was a pretty challenging course but at the same time so much fun.
Apart from learning the ins and outs of computer hardware I also learned some scripting in both Linux and Windows.

**Link to work**

[Readers writers problem in python](keep-learning/operating-systems/2021/readers-writers-threads.py)

[Batch & shell scriipting](keep-learning/operating-systems/2021/scripting)

----------------------------------------------------------
# 2020

----------------------------------------------------------
## November 02, 2020

**Mathematics, Algebra with and introduction to functions**
- Definition of, and basic properties of, the elementary functions.
- Mathematical notation and methods: logic and mathematical argumentation, set theory, consequences, sum / product signs and faculty. 
- Integer: divisibility, prime number, division rate and factorization and the induction axiom.
- Differences and equations.
- Absolute value. 
- Functions: injectivity, surjectivity, invertibility and composition.
- Complex numbers.
- Polynomial: the factor theorem, polynomial division.
- 
**Thoughts**

I had a real hard time to keep up with math, has been a while. 
 
**Introduction to Programming**
- Design simpler C ++ programs based on procedural programming.
- Use available constructions for iteration and selection.
- Use the built-in types and applicable operators.
- Identify delimited program modules and implement these as functions.
- Use parameters to transfer data between different program modules.
- Use pseudocode to implement simple code snippets.
- Construct simpler algorithms.
- Describe and implement simpler algorithms for search and sorting corresponding standard templates in the standard library.
- Use certain class templates from the standard library for strings and collections,
- Use streams for line-based input and output from / to console and disk,
- Write simple building scripts.

**Thoughts**

I always through learning c++ is scary and yes it is but not impossible.

**Link to work**

[C++ exercises](keep-learning/programming-languages/2020/c++)
 
----------------------------------------------------------
## August 31, 2020
**Oral & Written Communication**

Ment to teach us how to form technical reports and how to verbally communicate technical information at different levels of complexity.

**Basic Computer Science course, following are the subjects that will be covered**
1. Data representation & data storage
2. Architecture & Data Manipulation 
3. Operating system
4. Algorithms
5. Program language
6. Python
7. Data communication
8. Data structures
9. Software development
10. File structures & databases
----------------------------------------------------------

## August 18, 2020
**Autumn 2020 University enrollment at Mid Sweden University, degree of Bachelor of Science with a major in Computer Engineering**

**Thoughts:**

Yes, about two weeks before program start I applied and somehow I got in. 
Have been thinking of getting into Computer Science for some time now, so I'm pretty excited for this.

----------------------------------------------------------
# Format & Template

## DATE, 2046

**Today's Progress**:
##### Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit.
1. Sed a aliquet sem, id `porta` lacus.
2. Nam ac orci vitae orci facilisis consequat sit amet id nibh. 
3. Suspendisse sit amet rhoncus velit.
- Praesent vestibulum vel diam sed convallis.
    - Nunc non urna ut diam
    - In pretium ultrices augueS
        - Ut semper consequat imperdiet

**Thoughts**: 

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed a aliquet sem, id porta lacus. Nam ac orci vitae orci facilisis consequat sit amet id nibh. Suspendisse sit amet rhoncus velit. Praesent vestibulum vel diam sed convallis. Nunc non urna ut diam aliquam viverra vel nec arcu. In pretium ultrices augue, sit amet bibendum purus pharetra sed. Nunc luctus diam ut est laoreet molestie. Suspendisse eget sagittis diam. Ut semper consequat imperdiet. 

**Link to work**:

- [Link to work](https://github.com/)

**Resources**

- [Link to resource](https://github.com/)
----------------------------------------------------------

Commit message:

New entries, IoT and mathematical statistic and linear algebra.

log.md, after:

# Learning Log


----------------------------------------------------------
# 2021

----------------------------------------------------------
## November 01, 2021

**Embedded System for Internet of Things**
- Apply Ohm's law and calculate power requirements of simpler electrical circuits
- Identify and use active and passive components in an Internet of Things system
- Identify, describe and explain different types of architectures suitable for the Internet of Things
- Explain how ordinary sensors work and be able to apply these in a built-in system
- Apply standard protocols for communication between sensors and built-in system
- Apply standard protocols for communication between embedded systems and Cloud / middleware
- Design simpler Internet of Things systems and implement it in a built-in system
- Identify security needs for Internet of Things systems
 
**Thoughts**

This course is by far one of my favorites. Got my self some IoT devices and surrounding accessories, will be playing around with them when possible.

**Mathematical Statistics and Linear Algebra**
- Know basic concepts and be able to solve problems in probability theory
- Master basic descriptive statistics including the most common position and spread measurements
- Ability to perform calculations with stochastic variables and be familiar with some of the most common distributions
- Ability to perform point and interval estimation
- Ability to solve simple geometric problems in the plane and space
- Ability to solve linear systems of equations
- Ability to perform simple calculations with matrices and calculate determinants

----------------------------------------------------------
## August 30, 2021

**Administration of UNIX-like Systems**
- The course deals with the skills required to administer a UNIX like
systems such as basic commands for working and navigating the system,
modify the operating system kernel, configure and modify a bootloader,
volume, process and user management.
- In addition to knowledge about the use of a UNIX-like system, the course deals 
even with the most common services used in a network, for example CIFS, NFS, email, DNSSEC and firewalls
 
**Thoughts**

I have had a great time diving into UNIX-like systems, even though Windows has been my primary system for years and 
years. Using bash has opened a whole new world up for me, I can see my self making Linux my primary system.

**Databases - Modelling and Implementing**
- Different database systems
- Basic concepts
- Three-level architecture
- Relational model, relational algebra
- Orientation about object-oriented and the object relation model
- SQL, both simple and advanced
- Design of relational database and simple object relation databases using SQL
- Entity Relationship Models (ER)
- Extended Entity-Relationship (EER)
- Unified Modeling Language (UML)
- Normalization and functional dependencies
- Conversion of conceptual model to database schema
- Databases in Client / Server environment
- Transfer of an existing database from one environment to another
- Simple database programming
- Security
 
**Thoughts**

I have to say I like building databases, but damn there is so many parts to it.

----------------------------------------------------------
## March 22, 2021

**Computer Network**
- Overview: Briefly about the history, development and standardization of data communication. Different types of data communication protocols. Digitization. Circuit connection and packet switching. Detailed review of the OSI model and TCP / IP model layers. Infrastructure and communication technologies for local area networks (LANs), city networks (MAN) and global networks (WANs). 
- Physical layer: Different types of signals, attenuation, distortion and interference. Differences between analogue resp. digital signals. The bandwidth and bit rate of the transmission channel. Modulation and coding techniques for digital transmission. Multiplexing. Transmission media. Functions in different types of modems. Broadband access techniques.
- Data link layer: Framing, error handling, flow control. Local area networks (LAN). Topologies. Multi-access technicians. Ethernet. MAC addresses. Repeaters, hubs, bridges, switches. 
- Network layer: The IP protocol. IP addressing. Address types. Subnets and subnet masks. ARP. ICMP. DHCP. Router protocol.
- Transport layer: TCP and UDP protocols. Port numbers and sockets. Traffic jam management.
- Application layer: Client / server model. DNS. Application protocol. URLs.

**Thoughts**

This course has been fun and I think it would be beneficial to delve into this even more whenever I can.

**Object Based Programming in C++**
- Object-oriented terminology: class, members, operations, attributes, objects, instance, inheritance, relationship, message etc.
- Specification and implementation of classes in C++ 
- Overloading operators 
- Const declarations
- Abstract data types such as queue, stack and list
- Dynamic memory allocation 
- Pointers and its applications 
- Iterators in the standard library, including the connection to pointers
- Recursive algorithms
- Container classes in the standard library
- Own implementations of sorting and searching algorithms
- UML diagrams for classes, objects, activities and sequences

**Thoughts**

We are getting into C++ on a deeper level, and it seems that I am not that bad at it. Got a few compliments from my teacher so that makes me happy :)

**Link to work**

[Structs, own datatypes and operatoroverloadings](keep-learning/programming-languages/2021/structs)

[Linked lists](keep-learning/programming-languages/2021/linkedlists)

[maze iterative DFS](keep-learning/programming-languages/2021/maze)

----------------------------------------------------------
## January 18, 2021

**Mathematics, Discrete Mathematics**
- Theorem logic, logical reasoning and mathematical argumentation
- Equivalence relations, partitions
- Elementary number theory, divisibility, Euclid's algorithm, recursion, modular calculus
- Combinatorics
- Introduction to the complexity of algorithms
- Initial graph theory, e.g. simple graphs and elementary graph theoretical connections, trees and applications and digraphs.
- Some graph theoretical algorithms such as exciting trees and shortest paths.

**Introduction to Operating System**
- Basic concepts and history
- Construction and structure
- Processes and threads 
- Pseudo-parallel execution algorithms
- Memory management with virtual memory
- Communication with input and output units, file system
- Interrupt management
- Interprocess communication
- Synchronization mechanisms

**Thoughts**

This was a pretty challenging course but at the same time so much fun.
Apart from learning the ins and outs of computer hardware I also learned some scripting in both Linux and Windows.

**Link to work**

[Readers writers problem in python](keep-learning/operating-systems/2021/readers-writers-threads.py)

[Batch & shell scriipting](keep-learning/operating-systems/2021/scripting)

----------------------------------------------------------
# 2020

----------------------------------------------------------
## November 02, 2020

**Mathematics, Algebra with and introduction to functions**
- Definition of, and basic properties of, the elementary functions.
- Mathematical notation and methods: logic and mathematical argumentation, set theory, consequences, sum / product signs and faculty. 
- Integer: divisibility, prime number, division rate and factorization and the induction axiom.
- Differences and equations.
- Absolute value. 
- Functions: injectivity, surjectivity, invertibility and composition.
- Complex numbers.
- Polynomial: the factor theorem, polynomial division.
- 
**Thoughts**

I had a real hard time to keep up with math, has been a while. 
 
**Introduction to Programming**
- Design simpler C ++ programs based on procedural programming.
- Use available constructions for iteration and selection.
- Use the built-in types and applicable operators.
- Identify delimited program modules and implement these as functions.
- Use parameters to transfer data between different program modules.
- Use pseudocode to implement simple code snippets.
- Construct simpler algorithms.
- Describe and implement simpler algorithms for search and sorting corresponding standard templates in the standard library.
- Use certain class templates from the standard library for strings and collections,
- Use streams for line-based input and output from / to console and disk,
- Write simple building scripts.

**Thoughts**

I always through learning c++ is scary and yes it is but not impossible.

**Link to work**

[C++ exercises](keep-learning/programming-languages/2020/c++)
 
----------------------------------------------------------
## August 31, 2020
**Oral & Written Communication**

Ment to teach us how to form technical reports and how to verbally communicate technical information at different levels of complexity.

**Basic Computer Science course, following are the subjects that will be covered**
1. Data representation & data storage
2. Architecture & Data Manipulation 
3. Operating system
4. Algorithms
5. Program language
6. Python
7. Data communication
8. Data structures
9. Software development
10. File structures & databases
----------------------------------------------------------

## August 18, 2020
**Autumn 2020 University enrollment at Mid Sweden University, degree of Bachelor of Science with a major in Computer Engineering**

**Thoughts:**

Yes, about two weeks before program start I applied and somehow I got in. 
Have been thinking of getting into Computer Science for some time now, so I'm pretty excited for this.

----------------------------------------------------------
# Format & Template

## DATE, 2046

**Today's Progress**:
##### Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit.
1. Sed a aliquet sem, id `porta` lacus.
2. Nam ac orci vitae orci facilisis consequat sit amet id nibh. 
3. Suspendisse sit amet rhoncus velit.
- Praesent vestibulum vel diam sed convallis.
    - Nunc non urna ut diam
    - In pretium ultrices augueS
        - Ut semper consequat imperdiet

**Thoughts**: 

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed a aliquet sem, id porta lacus. Nam ac orci vitae orci facilisis consequat sit amet id nibh. Suspendisse sit amet rhoncus velit. Praesent vestibulum vel diam sed convallis. Nunc non urna ut diam aliquam viverra vel nec arcu. In pretium ultrices augue, sit amet bibendum purus pharetra sed. Nunc luctus diam ut est laoreet molestie. Suspendisse eget sagittis diam. Ut semper consequat imperdiet. 

**Link to work**:

- [Link to work](https://github.com/)

**Resources**

- [Link to resource](https://github.com/)
----------------------------------------------------------
